# Cellular Automata Software Library

Directory: /src/Visualization 

Files in this directory:
- ca_plot.py : Python script for generating visualizations using the CA CSV output files 
- Makefile : contains some targets for testing visualization functionality 
- README.md (this file)

#### Description
`ca_plot.py` is a Python script that allows you to create visualizations of cellular automata data using the matplotlib and imageio libraries! This script is meant to be run from the command line once you have produced your CSV file. This script is only compatible with CSV files generated by the CA class! 

This script has various arguments that allows you to customize your visualization.
```
python ca_plot.py <csv_file> <output_dir> [options]
```
Arguments:
- csv_file : the path to the CSV file containing your CA output data.
- output_dir : name of the directory you want to save the plots to. This will be created if it does not already exist. 

Options:
- --colors : Specifies the colors for the plot depending on the states. Provide colors in a python dictionary format. i.e. {0:'blue',1:'red',2:'green'}
- --width : width of the plot. If not provided, script will use default value of 10. 
- --height : height of the plot. If not provided, script wil use default value of 10. 
- --gif : Set whether to create GIF from the plots. Use `True` to enable GIF creation. GIF will be stored in directory the script is called from! 
  
Usage:
```bash
# simple use case
python ca_plot.py data.csv images

# example use case with options 
python ca_plot.py data.csv images --colors {0:'red', 1:'blue', 2:'green'} --width 5 --height 10 --gif True
```